docs: add DEP docs (#567)
medibloc/panacea-core: .gitbook/1-users/3-data-exchange/1-consume-data.md

# Consume data

Data consumers can open data deals by specifying the type, the quantity, and the pricing of the data that they are willing to consume. 

Data deals are registered in the Panacea public blockchain, so all data providers can find data deals, which match their data.

## Create a data deal

Broadcast the following `create-deal` transaction with specifying data schema, a data count, and a budget in the deal-file in JSON format.
```bash
panacead tx datadeal create-deal ${deal-file-path} \
  --from ${data-consumer-addr} \
  --chain-id ${chain-id} \
  --gas auto --gas-adjustment 1.30 --gas-prices 5umed \
  --node ${chain-node-rpc-addr}
```

For `deal-file-path`, create a following JSON file.
```json
{
  

> }

Reviewer: This JSON example(?) is empty.
If it is not intentional, here is an example:
```json
{
  "data_schema": [
    "http://json.schemastore.org/github-issue-forms.json"
  ],
  "budget": {
    "denom": "umed",
    "amount": "1000000"
  },
  "max_num_data": 10,
  "consumer_address": "panacea1..."
}

Author: Yeah. I was hesitating since I don't wanna use the data schema `github-issue-forms` which is not valuable for data exchange :) I'll make a sample data schema for "not-that-sensitive" medical data.

Author: done 9dd634eb3a4f07a90fb2eb9a4b8fb2ffb54a2183

```
It is very important to set data schema specifically and correctly, so that data being provided can be validated accurately by oracles.

For more details about data deals, please see the [Data Deal](../../3-protocol-devs/1-dep-specs/2-data-deal.md) specification.

## Query deals

You can query a deal with its deal ID.
```bash
panacead query datadeal deal ${deal-id} \
  --node ${chain-node-rpc-addr}
```
Also, you can query all deals registered in the chain.
```bash
panacead query datadeal deals \
  --node ${chain-node-rpc-addr}
```

## Query consents

> If some data consumers have data that fit the requirements of your data deal, they will submit consents to the chain.

Reviewer: maybe?
```suggestion
If some data providers have data that fit the requirements of your data deal, they will submit consents to the chain.
```

> The consent means that the data provider agreed to provide their data to the specific data consumer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The consent means that the data provider has agreed to provide their data to a specific data consumer.
```

Also, each consent can contain a data validation certificate issued by an oracle, so that data consumers can trust the validity of data.

As soon as data providers submit their consents, you can query all consents submitted to a specific data deal.
```bash
panacead query datadeal consents ${deal-id} \
  --node ${chain-node-rpc-addr}
```

> Or, you can query a specific consent which contains a certain data hash.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Or, you can query a specific consent, which contains a certain data hash.
```

```bash
panacead query datadeal consent ${deal-id} ${data-hash} \
  --node ${chain-node-rpc-addr}
```

For more details about data consents, please see the [Data Provider Consent](../../3-protocol-devs/1-dep-specs/3-data-provider-consent.md) specification.

## Access data

> A data validation certificate issued by an oracle contains how the data can be accessed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A data validation certificate issued by an oracle contains the methods to access the data.
```

For example, if the oracle decides to transmit data via [IPFS](https://ipfs.tech/), the certificate will contain a [CID](https://docs.ipfs.io/concepts/content-addressing/) of data.

> If so, you can access any IPFS node which is connected to the public IPFS network, and can obtain the data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If so, you can access any IPFS node connected to the public IPFS network, and obtain the data.
```

For more details about data validation certificates, please see the [Data Validation](../../3-protocol-devs/1-dep-specs/4-data-validation.md) specification.

> In general, the data transmitted is encrypted by oracles, so that only the specific data consumer is able to decrypt it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In general, the data transmitted is encrypted by oracles, so that only a specific data consumer is able to decrypt it.
```

> Using the following REST API, you can get a secret key of each data from the oracle which issued the data validation certificate.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using the following REST API, you can get a secret key of each data from the oracle that issued the data validation certificate.
```

```bash
curl -v -X GET -H "Authorization: Bearer ${jwt}" \
  "${oracle-url}/v0/data-deal/secret-key?deal-id=${deal-id}&data-hash=${data-hash}"
```
You must specify a JWT issued by yourself in order to prove that you are the data consumer who created the data deal.

> For that authentication, the JWT must be signed by your (data consumer's) chain account private key.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For this authentication, the JWT must be signed by your (data consumer's) chain account private key.
```

We highly recommend to set the expiration of JWT as short as possible for security reasons.

> In near future, the protocol will adopt the 'nonce' concept to improve the security of authentications.

Reviewer: It'd be good to add a guide to issue jwt using panacead cli.
```bash
panacead issue-jwt ...
```

Author: good that cli has been implemented finally. 
fixed 984539febe5f83078ef5f1368d8ded8f54e1ee8c

> Please note that the returned secret key is also encrypted, so that also the specific data consumer decrypt the key using his/her chain account private key.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Please note that the returned secret key is also encrypted, so that only the specific data consumers can decrypt the key using his/her chain account private key.
```

Nevertheless, we highly recommend you to communicate with oracles who provides an HTTPS endpoint with SSL/TLS encryption.

Using the encrypted secret key that you obtained from the oracle, you can decrypt data by the following CLI.
```bash
panacead decrypt-data ${input-file-path} ${your-account-key-name} ${encrypted-secret-key} \
  --node ${chain-node-rpc-addr}
```

> This command will decrypt the secret key using your account key first, and decrypt the data using the secret key.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This command will decrypt the secret key using your account key first, and decrypt the data using the decrypted secret key.
```
